# How A Nuclear War Will Start - Minute by Minute

Mr. President! Nuclear missiles will strike our country in 14 minutes.

I know it's your first day in the office so I'm going to walk you through it,
but you're the only one who can authorize our nuclear retaliation in response 
and you've only got a few minutes to make a decision!

As you know tensions have escalated rapidly in the past few days.
Today's joint allied aerial defense exercise began just minutes before we detected the launch.

A simple misunderstanding maybe.

We assume the sudden attack is meant to neutralize as many of our
nuclear as possible.

But that doesn't matter now - missiles are in the air and we can't shoot all of 'em down.

Why? Because Intercontinental ballistic missiles are basically rockets launched into space
before - re-entering the atmosphere over their target and releasing many different warheads.

Higher and faster than anything you can send after them.

We need to get you to the bunker!

Here is what we know: Four minutes ago our new infrared monitoring satellites detected one hundred twelve
bursts consistent with ICBM launches for the enemy's inner territories.

For some reason only 20 of their 80 underground nuclear silos seem to have fired, so we suspect, most of them
were transporter-erector launchers, you know: trucks with big missiles on them.

It's unclear why they didn't use all their silos - they might just not work after more than thirty years
or the might be keeping them in reserver. The fog of war is keeping many things unclear!

Aerospace Command thinks the ICBMs are targeting our nuclear command centers, silos, and major airforce and
  navy bases, ending this war before we have a chance to act!

The enemy's strategic doctrine prioritizes military targets and our nuclear weapon systems, but their secondary
  targets are our industry and infrastructure - oil refineries, power stations, and deep water ports.

  All are located near or in major population centers.

  We won't know the exact casualty count for a few weeks.

  Deaths from the blast and burns may be a few million today.

  
